This paper analyzes the impact of the National Minimum Wage from 2001 to 2021. The MNW increased from
€505.7/month (2001) to €1,108.3/month (2021). Using the data provided by the Spanish Tax Administration
Agency, databases that represent the entire population studied can be analyzed. More accurate results and more
efficient predictive models are provided by these counts. This work is characterized by the database used, which
is a national census and not a sample or projection. Therefore, the study reflects results and analyses based on
historical data from the Spanish Salary Census 2001-2021. Various machine-learning models show that income
inequality has been reduced by raising the minimum wage. Raising the minimum wage has not led to inflation or
increased unemployment. On the contrary, it has been consistent with increased net employment, contained prices,
and increased corporate profit margins.
The most important conclusion is that an increase in the minimum wage in the period analyzed has led to an
increase in the wealth of the country, increasing employment and company profits, and is postulated, under the
conditions analyzed, as an effective method for the redistribution of wealth.
1 Introduction
The economic literature has analyzed the impact of the minimum wage on employment, prices and growth. The idea
of the neo-liberal trend is that higher wages mean higher costs for the producers. If this is associated with increased
productivity, it should not be associated with increased prices. To do otherwise would lead to an inflationary spiral.
The first studies in the United States concluded that workers affected by an increase in the National Minimum Wage
(NMW) are those who earn a wage below the NMW Lopresti and Mumford [2016]. For this group of workers, the
increase in the NMW increases wages but reduces hours worked Neumark et al. [2004]. In contrast, similar analyses in
other countries, such as Germany, come to different conclusions Dustmann et al. [2021] and an increase in the NMW
does not alter the demand for employment and causes a shift in the demand for jobs that is perceived as better by
workers with wages similar to the NMW. It is not easy to affirm any of these positions, and cautious postulates must
be considered Clemens [2021]. Previous studies have linked increases in the NMW to inflation Sellekaerts [1982]. In a
historical series in Turkey, the increase in the NMW has been associated with an increase in prices and unemployment
Kemal and Kocaman [2019].
The data used in the works analyzed are based on samples, surveys or statistical projections based on economic
models. It is considered important to comment on a report by the Spanish Central Bank which analyzes the consequences of an increase in the NMW from €858/month in 2018 to €1050/month in 2019 Lacuesta Gabarain et al.
[2019]. This paper has considered for its analysis the data of the Employment History Report Sample between 2013-
2017 (MCVL - Portal Estadisticas - Seguridad Social, n.d.). Based on the projected data, young people (under 25) and
people over 45 have more than a 20% risk of losing their jobs as a result of the minimum wage increase. These findings
are in contrast to publications that conclude that there is insufficient evidence of a relationship between minimum
wage increases and unemployment Neumark and Shirley [2022].
There are significant differences between the minimum wages of the EU member states
(source: Eurostat; EARN Dist MW Dist CUR). The first group would be formed by Germany, the Netherlands,
Belgium, Ireland and France and the range would be €1750-€2000/month. Spain and Slovenia would form a second
group with a similar minimum wage of around €1250/month and the third group would be formed by the rest of the
EU member states with a MNW up to €1000/month.

MNW definition in Spain is a political decision. Particularly in recent years, the most progressive governments
have led to significant increases. This paper analyzes the impact of the MNW from 2001 to 2021. The MNW increased
from €505.7/month (2001) to €1,108.3/month (2021). This work is characterized by the database used, which is a
national census and not a sample or projection. Therefore, the study reflects results and analyses based on historical
data from the Spanish Salary Census 2001-2021.

2 Methods
2.1 The database
The Spanish Tax Administration Agency (Spanish: Agencia Estatal de Administraci´on Tributaria, AEAT) is a public
institution. It is attached to the Ministry of Economy and Finance through the former State Secretariat for Finance and
Budget. It handles the application of the tax system under the constitutional principle that everyone must contribute
to supporting public expenditure according to their economic capacity. It prepares the annual tax collection reports,
which provide information on the amount and annual evolution of the tax revenues managed by the AEAT. It offers
a database in Excel format called ”Distribucion salarios” in the supplementary material. This database collects
information on employees in Spain who receive income from a company or entity required to provide a list of those
receiving such income. This database does not include information on households that pay wages to employees in the
household, nor does it reflect the reported wages of the self-employed.
Payments are defined as income, in cash or kind, paid by the reporting unit (company or institution) in the form
of annual income. Employees are included in the database even if they worked for only one day. If an employee has
worked for more than one company or entity, the amount shown is the sum of all payments made to that employee
by the different companies from which he/she received his/her salary. The information is completely anonymous and
is presented in intervals of $200, from $0 to $80,000. The last interval is open, with no maximum value specified. A
total of 400 annual salary levels are presented. Each cell represents the value corresponding to each bracket by year
(2001-2021). Three variables are analyzed: number of employees, salary, and withholding tax.
2.2 Additional Macroeconomic Data
This paper analyzes other macroeconomic data regularly published by the National Statistics Institute (INE), such
as; MNW, Consumer Price Index, Unemployment Index, Gross Domestic Product, and Public Debt. In no case are
the data deflated, as they are all nominal.

2.3 Calculation of the Gini Index
The formula used to calculate the Gini index is:
G =
x
n2x¯
Xn
i=1
i(xi − x¯)
To calculate the Gini index for a year, the number of registered employees in that year is needed. The database
provides this information in brackets. The number of employees with a gross annual income equal to the interval,
the total gross income, and the total income tax withheld are provided for each interval (range of $200). The mean
is considered to be the distribution value that makes the variance zero since the probability distribution of each ith
interval is considered to be identically distributed. This results in a vector for each interval composed of j values that
are identical and equal to the mean of that interval.
V ector ith : n
o
employees(j) ¯xi
Each year vector is a union of all intervals vectors of this year.
2.4 Graph analysis
To analyze the relationships between macroeconomic variables, graph theory was used. A graph is a collection of nodes
(also called vertices) connected by edges (undirected)Newman [2018]. The pattern of interactions between the nodes
(individuals or entities) can be captured through the graph structure. The purpose of graph (or network) analysis is
the study of relationships between individuals to discover knowledge about global and local structures.
2
In this paper, the nodes of the graph are defined as all macroeconomic variables, and the edges are defined as
moderate or strong correlations between them. The linear correlation between two nodes is represented by corr(i, j),
and the Spearman correlation is defined as moderate or strong if corr(i, j) ≥ 0.5 Suchowski [2001] in case of direct
correlation. An edge(i, j) is defined if abs(corr(i, j) ≥ 0.5.
Detecting communities in networks is one of the most popular topics in modern network science. Communities, or
clusters, are typically groups of nodes that are more likely to be connected than to members of other groups, although
other patterns are possible. There are no universal protocols, neither for defining a community itself nor for other
crucial issues such as validating algorithms and comparing their performance.
The Louvain method hierarchically performs a greedy optimization Blondel et al. [2008], assigning each vertex to
the community of its neighbors that yields the highest number, and creating a smaller weighted network whose vertices
are the clusters found previously Fortunato and Hric [2016]. Partitions found on this super-network hence consist of
clusters including the ones found earlier, and represent a higher hierarchical level of clustering. Software used: Gephi
v 0.10 Jacomy et al. [2014].
2.5 Multivariate Linear Regression
The statistical model is assumed to be
Y = Xβ + µ
where µ N(0, Σ). The ordinary least squares for independent identically distributed errors (MSE). R- square formula
is,
R
2 = 1 −
sum squared regression (SSR)
total sum of squares (SST) = 1 −
P(yi − yˆ )
2
P(yi − y¯)
2
The Durbin-Watson (DW) statistic is a test for autocorrelation in the residuals from a statistical model or regression
analysis. Values from 0 to less than 2 indicate positive autocorrelation and values from 2 to 4 indicate negative
autocorrelation.
Durbin-Watson test statistics d is given as,
d =
PN
i = 2 (ei − ei−1)
2
PN
i = 1 ei
2
where N is the number of observations and ei
is the residual for each observation (i). The software used is
statsmodels packages for PythonSeabold and Perktold [2010].
2.6 Random Forest Regressor
The Random Forest Regressor (RFR) is an ensemble learning model. It combines the predictions of multiple models
to produce more accurate results than a single model Breiman [2001]. A decision tree (DT) is a simple model that
predicts the outcome by performing a partition based on the predictor (input variable) that provides the greatest
reduction in mean squared error (MSE).
MSE =
1
n
Xn
i
= (yi − yˆ)
2
Where y and ˆy are the measured and predicted values of the samples in a node, respectively, and n is the number
of samples in a node. A node that cannot branch further due to a non-decreasing MSE is called a leaf node, and
the average of the samples in that node becomes a candidate for prediction. When unseen data is entered into the
final DT model, the data moves according to predetermined branching criteria. The value of the leaf node where the
data finally arrives is used as the predicted value of the DT. Scitik-Learn is de machine learning software used in
PythonPedregosa et al. [2012].
3 Results
3.1 Calculation of the Gini Index
The Gini index of the gross wages received by all workers in the years under study is analyzed and called Gross-Gini.
A similar analysis called the net Gini, is carried out on net income (gross salary minus withholding tax). It shows
3
the effect of income tax progressivity as measured by the difference between the two indexes.Table 1 shows the
annual results of the database “Distribucion salarios” provided by AEAT. The nominal increase in average annual
gross earnings was like the annual increase in minimum wage. Over the twenty years of the study, they increased by
€7,500 and €7,300, respectively. The annual minimum wage percentile is calculated concerning annual gross income.
In most years, more than 30% of workers did not earn the equivalent of the annual minimum wage. This is due to
a significant level of underemployment. Tourism in Spain is seasonal and accounts for more than 13% of the total
employed Cabrer-Borras and Rico [2021]. Seasonality in the agricultural sector in Spain accounts for 5% of employment
Molinero-Gerbeau et al. [2021]. Over the period under review, the progressivity of income tax has remained stable.
Income inequality is favored by this progressivity. The difference between the calculated Gini indices indicates the
reduction in income inequality brought about by the progressivity of the tax.
3.3 Unemployment analysis
Figure 3 provides a visual analysis of the intuitive relationship between continuous increases in the minimum wage,
especially in recent years, and unemployment. It is observed that youth unemployment has the highest elasticity
for periods of economic crisis. No increase in unemployment among workers over 55 years of age is observed to be
associated with an increase in the minimum wage. The National Statistics Institute (INE) periodically publishes
unemployment figures. Quarterly figures are used in this case.
Figure 3: Unemployment trends by age and minimum wage 2002-2023

3.6 Mean Salary Difference explained
The Mean Salary was calculated considering all employees in all bands of the analyzed database. The bands below
€10,000 and above €80,000 have been excluded from the calculation of the Mean Salary Range. The first band
corresponds to employees who did not work the calendar year and distorts the average. Similarly, the band above
€80,000 is open and includes remarkably high salaries, which also distorts the average. For this reason, the variable
’average salary range’ corresponds to the average of employees whose gross annual salary is between [10K-80K]. There
9
has been a shift in the proportions of employees by rank, particularly since 2016, coinciding with more substantial
increases in the minimum wage. Over the years, the [20K-40K] range has increased from 5.85% (12.51% of gross
income) of the population in 2001 to 15.61% (20.96% of gross income) in 2021. This is because underemployment
(workers who want to work more hours and whose contracts do not cover 40 hours a week or all months of the year)
exceeds 15% of total emp
The share of employees per band for the three years analyzed [2001-2016-2022] is shown in the upper part of the graph. The
share of the sum of their gross annual income per income group is shown in the lower part of the graph.
Spearman’s linear correlation value between the DIFF variable and GINI was ρ = 0.75 shown in Fig 4. DIFF has
been found to be the most influential in predicting the Gini Index score.
The evolution of the percentile of the minimum wage over the period under study is analyzed and presented in
Figure 7, together with other macroeconomic variables. A percentile above 40 is noticeable. This means that 40% of
the wages recorded in the database are paid below the Minimum Wage. The evolution of the percentile is related to
an increasing minimum wage and to the evolution of the average gross wage.

For each year, the difference between the average gross salary of all employees and the gross salary range [10, 000−80,000] is
evaluated and represented by he brown line. The National Minimum Wage is represented by bars in the figure. The cream
line represents the Gini index corresponding to the net income values of the employees each year. The blue line represents the
evolution of the NMW percentile versus the annual gross salary vector.
4 Discussion
This paper is based on the statistical analysis of macroeconomic time series published by government agencies of
the Spanish government. The Bank of Spain, among others, predicted in 2017 that increasing the minimum wage
would cause unemployment to rise Lacuesta Gabarain et al. [2019]. Experience has shown that none of these forecasts
have been accurate. Fig 3 shows that an increase in the minimum wage is compatible with the creation of new jobs.
The average wage increases, and income inequality becomes fairer. These results are consistent with some studies
mentioned in the paper. In the United Kingdom (1999-2010), the development of wage inequality was examined. The
impact on inequality of the introduction of the minimum wage in 1999 was moderate. This can be explained by the
fact that the minimum wage was introduced at a level that was below the 10th percentile of the earnings distribution
Stewart [2002]. However, the specific features of the structure of the Spanish economy must be considered. One reason
for its impact on reducing income inequality may be that the most recent minimum wage is at the 30-40th percentile.
Extrapolating these results to other economies, or even to Spain in the near future, may be unwise. An increase
in economic inequality can lead to a lack of trust in governing politicians Andersen [2012]. In 2022, Piketty et al.
suggest that policy discussions on inequality should focus on policies that affect pre-tax inequality, rather than focusing
exclusively on tax redistribution (Predistribution vs. Redistribution: Evidence from France and the US, n.d.). This
paper shows that redistribution does not change the dynamics of economic inequality. As the minimum wage increases,
there is an increase in the number of workers in the $20,000-$40,000 range. This tends to reduce income inequality and
raise the average salary. And this is true for the Spanish economy since the minimum wage is far from the level of the
main European economies, such as France or Germany. There is a question as to the extent to which an increase in the
minimum wage will have a negative impact on the economy. It could be argued that as it approaches that of Germany,
either productivity increases or economic imbalances could arise, which have been widely analyzed. Inequality tends
to be pro-cyclical. Low-income households and young people tend to be hit harder by recessions. The distribution
of labor and capital income differs across countries. Therefore, the cyclicality of income inequality may also differ
Clemens et al. [2020].
11
Three different regression models were used. All of them confirm that the DIFF variable is the best predictor
of income inequality. It is particularly noticeable when there is a movement towards annual salaries above €20,000,
which is largely due to the increase in the minimum wage. There is reason to believe that the wage structure will tend
to follow the same trend as the minimum wage increases, catching up with major economies, if the minimum wage
percentile is above 20. In addition, income inequality will improve. This is measured by a decline in the Gini index.
The collection of corporate income tax has risen to a record figure of more than 200 billion euros for the first time in
2019 (Recaudaci´on y Estad´ısticas del Sistema Tributario Espa˜nol: Ministerio de Hacienda y Funci´on P´ublica, n.d.).
Therefore, there is no evidence of a reduction in corporate profits because of a minimum wage increase.
5 Conclusion
The most important conclusion is that an increase in the minimum wage in the period analyzed has led to an increase
in the wealth of the country, increasing employment and company profits, and is postulated, under the conditions
analyzed, as an effective method for the redistribution of wealth.
Using the data provided by the AEAT, it could be analyzed databases that represent the entire population studied.
More accurate results and more efficient predictive models are provided by these counts. The results offered in this
paper should be analyzed in the context of the particularity of the Spanish economy.
Various machine-learning models show that income inequality has been reduced by raising the minimum wage.
Raising the minimum wage has not led to inflation or increased unemployment. On the contrary, it has been consistent
with increased net employment, contained prices, and increased corporate profit margins.
Other aspects, such as the profitability of movable and immovable assets and the income of the self-employed,
should be included in a subsequent analysis.